I have a 70% hit rate. I've got a long
enough career in enough uh strategies
where it's statistically significant and
I have a 70% hit rate, which means I'm
right 70% of the time, which means I'm
wrong 30% of the time. So, I've been at
this for over 40 years. So, I've been
wrong for more than 12 years, [laughter]
right? But thank God they haven't been
in a row. Really, three years is when
everyone pulls the plug. If you're if
you're wrong, if you underperform year
one, year two, and year three, you're
gone. You know, if you're if you're
wrong five years in a row, they they
shut your Janice unconstrained bond fund
because you can't have sequential years
of outperformance like that.
>> It's a very specific example, Jeff. I
wonder where that came from.
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts Podcast. I'm [music]
Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, we are still in celebratory mode.
Yes. 10 year 10 year anniversary.
>> It's 10 year anniversary month really.
And even next month kind of 10 year
anniversary month. So we can just extend
this for a long time.
>> We could just make this Well, we should
have made 2025 the OddLots 10 year
anniversary year.
>> Yeah.
>> But we're almost at the end of the year.
So we failed in that respect. But
obviously we're sort of reflecting on
the past decade or so at OddLotss and
things that have or haven't changed in
markets. And one thing I've been
thinking about a lot is what's been
going on in the bond market.
>> Yeah. You can't Well, I think look,
there is nothing that's more different
in 2025 versus 2015 than what's going on
in fixed income. Right.
>> So you say that and it is true. Okay.
You know, if you look at if you look at
the benchmark 10-year yield, okay, sure,
we're at 4% now, above 4% and in 2015,
we were at like 2%, right? That's
changed. And we went through inflation,
which is something we hadn't experienced
for a pretty long time in, you know,
previous years. But
>> I also feel like it's changed, but a lot
of it hasn't. A lot of the discussions
haven't changed. If I think about what
we were discussing uh back in 2015, it
was stuff like who's going to buy US
treasuries, who's going to fund the US
deficit, bond vigilantes. I mean, how
many years have we been talking about
bond vigilantes now? Uh the credit
market, it was whether or not investors
are being adequately compensated for the
risk they're taking on. And the funny
thing is now, you know, if you look at
spreads on junk rated bonds, if if you
didn't think they were being adequately
compensated at like 7.2 2% in 2015. I
wonder what you think when you look at
spreads of 6.4% in 2025.
>> This is a really good point actually
because especially lately obviously
we've had all of these you know we've
had a number of credit events these
little blowups Jamie Diamond used the
term cockroaches etc. But by and large
spreads which were sort of infamously
narrow last decade remain quite narrow
by historical terms.
>> I feel like we should just mention here
we are recording on November 10th. Oh
yeah. Things are changing fast in the
credit market. There's a little bit of
nervousness creeping in. But you're
you're absolutely right. By and large,
spreads are at, you know, pretty pretty
low levels and people have been
complaining about it for a long time
now. Well, speaking of credit, you also
have the rise of private credit, which
is something we were talking about even
back in 2015, but back
>> I wasn't. You were.
>> Well, no, we both were, but we called it
something different. We called it, you
know, shadow banks and agencies and all
of that. Uh but that is a space that's
much bigger, much more interest, much
more scrutiny. I mean, just a whole, you
know, orders of magnitude bigger since
2015. I don't think people have any real
handle on like what risk scenarios look
like, the quality of the underwriting,
etc. So, this is uh definitely something
and it's, you know, we've been talking
about it for years, but it continues to
grow and with some of these quote
cockroaches, etc., more interest in
what's really going on,
>> right? So things have changed, but
things have also kind of stayed the same
in some respects. But I am very happy to
say we do in fact have the perfect guest
to talk about all of this. Someone who
has, you know, been writing and
conversing and going on TV and talking
about a lot of these themes for
>> and making a great career directly
investing in all of these
>> actually investing based off some of
these ideas. We're going to be speaking
with Jeff Gunlack. He is of course the
founder and CEO of Double Line Capital,
someone we've wanted to get on the show
for a long time. So Jeff, thank you so
much for coming on All Thoughts.
>> Well, thanks for having me. I'm looking
forward to our discussion today.
>> So let's start big picture because I
actually we can take this in, you know,
a bunch of different directions, but
when you look at the Treasury market and
when you look at the credit market,
which are you more concerned about at
the moment? Because I I know you've
voiced some worries about both of these
things. Yeah, I'm uh concerned about the
financing of long-term treasuries
primarily because we're issuing a lot of
them. Uh and uh there's inflationary
policies that are being run and probably
likely to be further doubled down upon
when Jerome Pow leaves as Fed chairman.
I mean, we've got Scott Bessant as the
Treasury Secretary. Well, he's basically
mimicking what the president says. He
basically says rates should be a point
lower, two points lower. I've heard
different numbers out of President
Trump. He wants rates at 2%, 3%, but
inflation is running above 3%. On the
headline CPI, and it's not likely to
come down to the Fed's 2% target. And so
there there's a lot of interest in
artificially lowering lowering interest
rates and perhaps taking the maturities
of treasuries uh ever increasingly to
under one year in maturity. A lot of
investors aren't aware of the fact that
something like uh 80% of all treasuries
issued in the last 12 months and this
has been the case for the last few years
are less than one year. The treasuries
that are issued longer than 20 years. So
20 years out to 30 years is only 1.7%
of the Treasury issuance of the last 12
months. And what's interesting about
that is the Fed has been cutting
interest rates
>> over the last 13 13 months. And
historically, when the Fed cuts interest
rates, of course, short-term interest
rates decline definitionally at the Fed
funds level, but also two-year Treasury
rates decline. Five-year Treasury rates
decline. In fact, long-term Treasury
rates have always declined uh subsequent
to the the first cut by the Federal
Reserve and particularly when you're in
a a sequence of Federal Reserve cuts.
And that's certainly been the case with
now 150 basis points. But this time, all
interest rates outside of the 2-year are
higher than they were before the Fed's
first rate cut. That just never happens
historically. Another interesting thing
that has never happened historically is
earlier this year during the tariff
tantrum of late March and early April,
stock market had a pretty significant
correction. And it was going back uh
back to around 2000. It was the 13th
correction in the S&P 500 defined by a
drop of 10% at least 10%. In the in the
12 corrections before the one here in
2025, the dollar went up when the uh
stock market went down as a flight to
quality asset. That didn't happen this
time. When we went into that correction
earlier this year, the dollar went down.
It usually goes up by around 8%. And in
the first quarter, early second quarter
of this year, it went down by around
10%. So what is happening here seems to
be that the pattern of interest rate
movements and currency movements and
what's a flight to quality asset and
what isn't seems to have changed because
interest rates have bottomed at the long
end of the yield curve. And I've been
saying this for five years now that the
secular decline in interest rates at
long at the long-term uh maturities is
over. In fact, in the next recession,
long-term interest rates are likely to
go higher, not lower. And what's
happened since the Fed started cutting
corroborates this somewhat radical idea
of mine. When it comes to credit spreads
are tight, although you correctly noted
that they're not on the tights of the
year anymore. They're starting to widen.
I think junk bond spreads are up by
about 30 or 40 basis points. And yes,
spreads have remained tight for a long
time. But one thing that you also uh
referenced a little bit is the quality
of the public uh corporate credit market
is better than it's been historically.
It's way better than it was prior to the
global financial crisis where you've had
all kinds of garbage lending going on.
But in recent years, the garbage lending
has not gone to the public markets. The
garbage lending has gone to these
private markets and private credit has
been very popular and is now
increasingly been overallocated to by
large asset pools. I remember Harvard
University for example, they've got like
a 50 odd billion dollar endowment and
their donors pulled back when they had
uprisings on campus and the donors
didn't like what was going on. So they
stopped donating for a while and Harvard
had no money. a 50 odd billion dollar
endowment and they couldn't pay
salaries, they couldn't pay the light
bills, they couldn't pay basic
maintenance. They had to go to the bond
market to borrow. They tried to borrow
about four billion dollars. I think I I
think they got away with about $2.5
billion. But it's fascinating that you
have a huge asset pool that doesn't have
liquidity to pay the bills. And I've
also heard that another large endowment,
I think it's Yale University, I might be
wrong there, but I think it's Yale,
they're talking about selling some of
their private equity stakes because they
don't have any liquidity either. And
this has bled over into the private
credit market. And I was at a a
Bloomberg broadcasted event in Hollywood
at Paramount Studios, I think it was.
And I got there early and there was a
panel before my fireside chat where the
members of the panel were all
significant executives at some of the
largest private credit firms. And it was
really interesting to hear them talk
because the tone of the message they
were giving was far from bullish. You
know, it's kind of like when when you
talk to a junk bond manager say, "What
what's the outlook for 2026?" And the
most bearish thing they're going to say
is, "We don't think spreads can get any
tighter, but we [laughter] think they're
you're the most bearish thing they're
going to say. You're gonna earn the
coupon." Well, these private credit
people were using words like tension and
lack of runway. These are all euphemisms
for bad things happening. And I I think
that, you know, we've started to see
defaults. And there's something on the
Bloomberg Newswire today. It's a on top
go that speaks of a home uh renovation
business that was private credit like
$150 million uh issuance of private
credit and it went to zero but anyway
it's called like Renovo or something
like this and the funny thing is the
argument for private credit has always
been a sharp ratio argument at the
center of it is that you know you get
the same return or maybe a little better
return than the public markets but you
have much lower volatility. Well, that's
that's like saying that you have no risk
in a CD. You don't have any interest
rate risk in a CD. If you buy a 5year
CD, the price never changes. Well,
that's just because you don't market to
market. You know, of course, a CD that
you bought 5 years ago at 1 and a.5% is
not worth you couldn't sell it at uh at
a par value. You're going to have to
take a discount on it. That's the
private credit argument. What really
happens and this was really borrowed
from private equity which they use the
sharp ratio argument there too. They say
well you'll get the same return or maybe
a little better return out of private
equity than you will out of the S&P 500
uh but it's much lower volatility. So
what happens is when the S&P 500 goes
from 100 to 50, the private equity firms
mark their positions down from 100 to
80. Now they're not worth 80. You
couldn't sell them at 80, but that's
where they get marked. And then when the
when the market recovers back to 100 on
the S&P 500, they mark their private
equity up to 100. So lo and behold, both
the S&P 500 and the private equity have
a return of zero. But the the volatility
of the S&P 500 is more than double that
of the private equity. So it's basically
a sharp ratio argument based upon the
volatility being under reportported. And
that's that goes on in all these so
these so-called private markets. And now
it's very fascinating that this Renovo
in the article today it basically said
that they had a chapter 7 filing and
bankruptcy filing and their assets the
uh their liabilities were show listed as
being between 100 and $500 million. You
just you you check a box you don't get a
specific number. So there's ranges and
the range that their liabilities were in
was between 100 and $500 million. Their
assets were listed as less than $50,000.
[laughter]
>> Less than $50,000. Are you trying to
tell me that these this these big
private equity firms and private credit
firms with all of their resources aren't
aware of that type of debt to equity
ratio? That's obviously far into a
bankrupt situation. So what's going on
here? that private equity firms had this
marked a few weeks ago at 100 when it
was obvious that their liabilities were
vastly vastly higher than their equity.
That should have been marked down to I
don't know 50 20 five one but it's at
100. What's going on? It's like there's
only one price for private there's only
two prices for private [laughter]
credits.
>> Yeah.
>> 100.
That's it. And I heard an announcement
made from these private equity people at
that Bloomberg event. They're sort of
like, as long as we believe that we're
going to get paid back, we leave it at
100. Well, okay. But once once you have
150 million plus dollars of of
liabilities and less than $50,000 of
assets, it's pretty unlikely you're
going to get paid back.
>> The price should not be at 100. But
that's what's going on. And so you have
that sharp ratio argument. Then you have
another argument for private credit
which is had been somewhat valid was
just recent history. I mean performance
the five-year performance of private
credit a couple of years ago was
definitely better than the five-year
performance at least reported
performance of of of public credit.
Private credit did better than public
credit. You had a a a trailing
performance argument which of course
trailing performance is no guarantee of
future results which is stated on every
single perspectus. But uh recently
private credit is not outperforming.
Obviously with bonds going from 100 to
zero in a matter of weeks uh the public
market has been performing better than
the private market. And then the most
ridiculous argument of all for private
credit has been private credit belongs
in every portfolio because it lets you
sleep at night because it helps you ride
out the volatility of your public
credit. Again, that's just a repackaging
of the volatility. If you don't market
to market, there's no volatility. But if
the price goes from 100 to zero in a
matter of a few weeks, uh there's
there's something something uh unourred
is going on. And so I'm very very
negative on those types of uh you know
non-transparent markets. It reminds me
I've been saying this for probably two
years now that the next big crisis in
the financial markets is going to be
private credit. Uh it's it's it has the
same trappings as subprime mortgage pack
repackaging had back in 20 uh 2006. Now
it took a couple of years for it to
totally unravel. So, this stuff doesn't
happen in a week or a year even. But I'm
very negative on that. And so, where we
stand on fixed income is we don't like
long-term Treasury bonds at all because
we don't we don't think people are going
to want them. During the next recession,
the deficit is going to go up because it
always goes up during a recession. The
deficit the official deficit is about 6%
of GDP. That's a level that was
associated historically with the depths
of recessions.
>> Yeah. because of course it goes up
during recessions. Well, when you go to
a recession, the deficit goes up on
average by well, it depends what long
how long a time series you use, but if
you go back for about 50 years, it goes
up by about four or 5% of GDP. In more
recent recessions, it's been a lot worse
than that. We could argue, you could
make the case somewhat plausibly that
the global financial crisis was kind of
weird and that the COVID lockdown
recession was kind of weird. But during
those the deficit went up by about 8% of
GDP on average. So what happens if the
deficit goes from 6% of GDP to 10% of
GDP or 12% of GDP or 14% of GDP? All of
those are possible. What happens is that
you have to blow up the entire system
because all the tax receipts would go to
interest expense.
>> We're already at a large percentage
about 1.4 4 $ 1.5 trillion of the $7
trillion budget is now interest expense.
Of course, we have a $2 trillion budget
deficit. So there's only $5 trillion of
taxes and you know 30% of that is going
to interest expense and that is going to
go higher. And as interest rates are
still elevated from levels of six or
five to seven to 12 years ago, the bonds
that are rolling off have an average
coupon for the next few years of three
of a little bit below 3%. Let's just
call it 3%. That means that with Fed
funds at three and 78 and treasuries at
four out to four and a half, that means
that on average you're going to have
higher interest expense on just rolling
over the existing debt. And
[clears throat] of course, you're
ladling on a couple trillion dollars in
a non-recessionary period. And so, I did
a thing at Grant's uh conference, Jim
Grant, had his 40th anniversary
conference and a couple years ago, and I
did a a my simplest, most succinct
presentation I've ever given in my
career. I just went through the interest
expense problem using plausible
assumptions on where the deficit's
going. And but the conclusion is and
this is an art and not a science. So
there's a lot of assumptions that can be
challenged but putting it in in a rather
pessimistic light. So I don't say this
is the base case but by the year 2030 so
5 years from now it's quite plausible
that under the current tax system and
the current borrowing regime that we
have 60% of all tax receipts going to
interest expense. You can make it really
really draconian and say what if
interest rates go up to 9% on treasuries
and what if the budget deficit goes to
12% of GDP and you make these kind of uh
you know pessimistic assumptions well by
around 2030 you would have 120% of tax
receipts going to interest expense which
of course is impossible. So that means
that something has to happen and we're
not talking about you know early in my
career people were saying we we can't
keep borrowing this money that was under
regonomics which people thought was a
bad idea because it was deficit spending
and they said you know way we're going
we're going to be broke we'll be out of
money in social security and other
entitlement programs by 2050 and then 10
years later you know it they moved it
forward to 2040. So, it was initially
supposed to be like a 60-year problem
and then 10 10 years later it was a
40-year problem and then it was a
20-year problem and now it's like a
five-year problem which means it's a
problem in real time and something has
to be done about this. So, long-term
treasuries look vulnerable to me. I
still like short-term treasuries because
I think the Fed is likely to cut
interest rates and that definitionally
leads to lower interest rates on say
five years in immaturities. Jeff, first
of all, I hesitate to ask a question
here because, you know, we could just
let you go on um and hear you tear
particularly private credit to shreds.
Um that was great. And thank you also
for the plug for both Bloomberg
Journalism and the Bloomberg Hollywood
event. Uh that's called Screen Time.
That's our conference there. And then
secondly, Joe, I was going to make a
Drake joke about private credit. I was
going to say going from 100 to zero real
quick in private credit could be a
really terrible Drake song like most of
them are [laughter] but that was 5
minutes ago so I don't think my joke is
relevant anymore. Uh Jeff um
[clears throat]
you know in the 2010s when we started
this podcast 10 years ago an investor
could have a really nice you know
6040ish portfolio and there are all
sorts of beautiful things with that
particularly that sort of inverse
correlation that uh that exhibited
between treasuries and stocks. So that
as you mentioned typically in a downturn
you get a stock market swoon well at
least the slug of fixed income that you
owns maybe it outperforms then you get a
little smoothing but maybe you get some
positive real rates it all works out
really well I understand okay maybe
there's still some opportunities in the
short end because rates are going to go
lower etc maybe private maybe public
credit has better standards than private
credit we'll get into that but like do
we have to go back and revisit just the
case or the for even having fixed income
in a diversified portfolio.
>> Well, I don't recommend
>> and I know that look, you're you you
have you're a fixed income portfolio
manager, so I understand this is an
existential question for you. So, I know
there's but you know, like you know, how
should how would you sell the case for
even having it?
>> It would be an existential question for
somebody that's been five to eight years
in the business and it's just getting
going.
>> Yeah. All right. because, you know, I
I've been I've been at this for well
over 40 years and I really don't don't
need to make money by managing other
people's money at all. Uh so I I'm very
honest. What people like about me is
they say I get I get stopped on the
street and people say I see you on on
TV. I really love I'm really a fan of
yours because you're a straight shooter.
You know, I don't I don't talk any kind
of look whatsoever. But I I think that
right now I think financial assets
broadly should be lower allocated have a
lower allocation than typical. You talk
about 6040 that means you 100% in
financial assets.
>> I think in equities today you investors
should have maximum 40%.
>> Okay.
>> Uh and and most of that in in non- US
equities particularly if you're a
dollar-based investor like any American
would would normally typically be. I
think you want the dollar's going to
fall and so you're not going to be
making money on the currency
translation. You're going to be losing
money and that's certainly been the case
so far this year. Again, things are
acting differently uh now that we're in
a rising rate regime and not a falling
rate regime. You're doing much better as
a dollar-based investor in local
currency emerging market stocks. I mean,
they're they're up something like 25%
year-to- date for a dollar-based
investor. you're even better off in
European stocks because the dollar's
down versus versus the euro. So, I think
the the amount that people should have
in fixed income should probably be about
25%, not 40%, maybe 25%. And I think
that it should be some of it in non-doll
fixed income. Again, emerging market
fixed income, which is by far the
highest performing sector for
dollar-based investors in the fixed
income market this year. And so that
leads to 40% that you're not if if
you're at 40% in stocks and and 20% or
25% in bonds, you've got another, you
know, 35 40% to allocate. And I've been
very very bullish on gold. We do a a
podcast that's gets up on our website.
It's in early January every year. It's
called uh Roundtable Prime, Double Line
Roundtable Prime, and we have a bunch of
thought leaders there. It's the same
group every year and we go through one
of the segments is you know what what
what are your best ideas and my number
one best idea for this year was gold. Uh
because I think gold is now a real asset
class. I think people are allocating to
gold not just the survivalists you know
and the crazy speculators people who are
actually allocating real money because
it's real value. And of course gold has
been the top performing asset uh for the
year certainly for the last 12 months.
And so I I think investors I I was at
one point advocating 25% of a portfolio
in gold like things, real assets,
highquality land, gold, you know, highv
value assets. I think that's too high
right now because I think that that
trade has played out so very well and
gold seems to have stalled out in the
last month or so at a very high level.
So it's consolidating its gains. I think
it goes higher, but for the time being,
I'd probably be more like at 15% or
something like that. And the rest, I
think I I I would be in cash because I
think valuations are just incredibly
high. And the the health of of the
equity market in the United States is
it's among the least healthy in my
entire career in terms of the PE ratio,
the cape ratio. All the classic
valuation metrics are off the charts.
And of course, the market is incredibly
speculative. Uh, and speculative markets
always go to insanely high levels. It
happens every time. This is not, you
know, obviously it happened in the
dotcoms. It happened in the financials
prior to the GFC. It's happening now in
the AI and the data centers and all that
stuff. And, you know, it's interesting.
the probably the the biggest thing that
changed the economy and the world uh in
the last I don't know 150 years was
electricity. Electricity being put into
people's homes was probably one of the
biggest changes of all time. And of
course around 1900 people realized that
electricity to homes was coming. And so
electricity stocks were in a huge mania
and they did it incredibly well. But the
the relative performance of electricity
uh relative to the entire stock market
in the US ex excluding electricity. So
everything else but electricity the
electricity outperformance peaked in
1911.
Houses weren't even broadly electrified
by 1911. You had to be a very rich
person to have electricity in 1911. But
yet that was that was the
outperformance. And so it all gets
priced in very quickly. and excessively
>> because people love to look at the
benefits of these transformative
technologies and they are
transformative. I mean look at what
happened to some of the internet stocks.
They they dropped 80 80 90% in the early
OOS's but there are many many multiples
of what their peak was at that time but
it gets priced in very very early. So I
think that one has to be very careful
about momentum investing during uh mania
periods and I feel like that's where we
are right now and I just don't think
there's any argument against the fact
that we're in a mania.
>> I want to go back to something you said
just then about how investors should be
reducing their dollar exposure. So this
is you know the the sell America thesis
that was very popular um at the
beginning of the year and per your
comments is still very popular with some
people but we have seen in general you
know a little bit of a strengthening in
the dollar uh 10-year Treasury yields uh
have been going down compared to where
they were earlier. What accounts for I
guess the stickiness of US assets in the
global financial system and in investors
portfolios even when I think we can all
agree that there are challenges ahead
for US government debt and assets in the
form of high deficits and spending and
maybe political stasis and things like
that.
>> People are reluctant to make changes to
longstanding paradigms. One of the
hardest things to do in the investment
business is to significantly change your
allocations after you've been right.
That's counterintuitive to a lot of
people, but trust me, someone that's
done this for a very long time, that's
the hardest thing to do because when you
when you do something and it works
really well, it make it makes you it
gives you satisfaction on every level,
an economic level, an emotional level,
psychological level. It's it helps you
to have happy meetings with your
clients. Just imagine if you bought
Apple at I don't know $5 a share and it
went up to I don't know 700 and so you
you get to go to your review with your
client and you say hey let's take a look
at your portfolio look at this cost five
last price 700 I am working for you know
I've done a good job for you well when
you sell Apple at 700 you no longer have
that line item
>> and so you can't point to this great
thing that you did for that client. And
so people like to project the past,
successes of the past. They like to hang
on to them or even project them into the
future. And that's a dangerous thing to
do. But when you ch I was I was 100%
dollar. I owned no foreign currencies
for decades. And then starting about 18
months ago, I had to pull the trigger. I
had to say, you know what? I I don't
think this paradigm is intact any
longer. And I think you're going to lose
money by betting on the dollar as a
dominant asset. And it's a scary thing
to do because you're you you you wake up
in the morning and you you look in the
mirror and say, "I'm looking at a at a
strong dollar guy." And then all of a
sudden the next day you're saying, "I'm
looking at a guy that's no longer
confident in a strong dollar or
>> pointing at the mirror going, who am I?"
>> Yeah. Like I, you know, I I wonder why I
have should have to pay taxes. Quite
frankly, when I look in the [laughter]
mirror, I don't identify as a
billionaire. I identify as a homeless
80-year-old guy. I [laughter] I why
should I have to pay taxes, but I
identify as a as a destitute elderly
man. I don't understand. So,
>> yeah, I think other people other people
might um identify you differently. I
want to go back to um the rates um
question. As you mentioned, it's sort of
un historically unusual that we've seen
this period of the Fed cutting rates for
the last 13 months and very little uh
downward action in the long end of the
curve. We know everyone can sort of look
at the same math that you look at in
terms of interest expense. We know that
the long end of curve is very sensitive
for housing and that's something that's
very important to the US economy. We
know that President Trump would like to
see the long end of the curve go down
perhaps because um he has deep
familiarity with it from his real estate
days. Do you think at some point in the
sort of medium-term future, we're going
to see the return of proper yield curve
control that we're going to see the Fed
cut rates and not um get the response
desired at the long end and then more
drastic action is going to come such
that actual steps are taken to suppress
that long end.
>> That's my base case. Um and I've been
talking about this now for nearly two
years that we cannot afford the market
to uh set interest rates if the deficit
spending continues. It's it it won't be
tenable. So what has to happen is going
to be some sort of drastic measures and
I'm not exactly sure what those drastic
measures are going to be. There's a
number of candidates for them. We could
do what we did from after World War II
until the mid-50s when inflation was
rising and we had significantly negative
real yields and we had inflation go up
to around 8% and the yield curve was
kept the long bonds were kept at 2 and a
half%. So you can you can absolutely
manipulate the yield curve. Japan has
did that for decades. For decades they
kept rates at zero even though there was
no demand. I actually had a meeting with
uh the guy that ran the biggest pension
plan in the world. It was one of the
Japanese public pension plans. And I was
really anxious to sit down with him and
I said, "I I really want to ask you this
question. Do you actually own these
negative yielding JGBs?" And he actually
laughed out loud when I asked him that
question. He said, "Of course not.
Nobody owns them except the Bank of
Japan and the and the institutions that
are forced to buy them by the Bank of
Japan." So, it's a it's a real thing. we
did in the United States for a decade.
They did in Japan for decades and uh
Secretary Bessant has alluded to the
fact that maybe that's on the table,
some sort of interest rate manipulation.
So what this leads to is a really
interesting dilemma because what I think
is my my
road map for the future and of course
there's many variations one could use
but the starting point for me is that
interest rates will rise until such time
as they're uncomfortably high for the
Treasury Department. What is that where
is that 5% 6%? My guess is six is is the
highest that it would be full on uncom
uncomfortable full on at 6% on the long
end. So what happens is you want to
avoid long bonds while the the market
forces are in play and uh Joel you said
that long rates aren't down very much
since the Fed started cutting. No, no,
they're up a lot. Long rates are up a
lot since the Fed started cutting. Uh
this is the first time it's ever
happened. They're up by almost 100 basis
points with the Fed cutting. That's has
never happened before. But with interest
rates rising as the Fed is cutting at
the long end, what's going to happen is
they'll get to a point where all of a
sudden it's too uncomfortable and then
something dramatic will happen. The
something dramatic could that simply be
the government, the Treasury Department
buys the treasuries. And if they
announce that they're going to buy
treasuries and control long-term
interest rates, you would have a 30point
rally in the long bond in a week. So,
there's a very very uh sensitive uh
strategy here where you have to be very
negative over the normal course of
things. And then once the intervention
comes in, there's going to be a a step
fun a significant step function lower in
yields. And so, you have to try to
figure out how you're going to do that
pivot. Uh that's what I spend most of my
time thinking about when it comes to the
Treasury market these days. Although for
now uh it's way too early for them to
panic and start manipulating the rates.
What they might manipulate are mortgage
rates. They could they could absolutely
buy uh Jinny Mays, Fanny Mays, Freddy
Max, the government guaranteed mortgages
and drive those yields down much closer
to where Treasury yields are. And
there's no rule that says they can't go
through Treasury yields. I mean there
are instances where non-treasury yields
are lower than treasury yields of the
same maturity. Just earlier this year
there was a corporate bond that was
lower yielding than the same maturity
treasury bond. That also happened in the
early 80s when IBM bonds traded at a
lower yield than treasury bonds of the
same maturity because investors had
greater confidence in the payback of IBM
than they did in what they thought was a
bad strategy under regonomics. And that
has begun to enter the picture here in
2025 with corporate bonds periodically,
not only the very best ones of course,
but like Microsoft, something like that,
trading through treasuries.
>> And so that's a tell that something is
up here. The other thing that they might
do, and there was a white paper written
about this just about a year ago now
that said maybe we should restructure
the treasuries held by foreigners,
>> which is a very strange thing to say.
This is the Mara Lago accord, right?
>> Yeah. I Yes, it is. I I don't know how
you define what a foreigner is.
Foreigners can hide behind entities.
>> Yeah.
>> And so it looks like they're not owned
by foreigners, so I'm not exactly sure
what foreigners mean. But why put the
word foreigners in there? Why not just
say we're going to restructure the
Treasury debt? Full stop. How? What does
that mean? Well, one way to to save on
interest expense to get it back down
from 1.5 trillion to the 300 billion it
was a couple of years ago, why don't you
just say all the treasuries that exist
today, we're changing their coupons. The
ones that have a coupon above one, the
coupon is now one. The ones that have a
coupon less than one, the coupon stays
the same. That would save a tremendous
amount of interest expense. Of course,
it would cause a disastrous
tumultuous time in the government bond
market. But people say to me, you're
always talking about this debt problem.
What's the solution? The solution is get
to a point where people won't lend the
government money anymore. That the
government can't borrow any money. So
that if you if you restructure
treasuries that way, there'll be a
couple of generations the government
won't be able to borrow any money
anymore. And that would actually put us
in a better place than where we are
today. I want to ask another question
about private credit, but just before I
do, I'm curious. Do you ever talk to
Bessant about your ideas for how to fix
the US Treasury market basically or
voice your concerns?
>> I think he watches my CNBC segment
[laughter] after press conference.
>> All right. Um, let's go back to private
credit for a second. Um, because that's
obviously the topic duour and as Joe
pointed out, one of the things that has
really grown exponentially over the past
10 years. You've said on the podcast
just now and you've said it before that
you think private credit is the
candidate for another financial crisis
and I understand the marking issue. I
understand the liquidity mismatch but
when I look at private credit maybe
what's missing in terms of some of our
more recent financial crises is that
leverage built on top of leverage
aspect. Can you give
>> Well, that's private credit. That is
that is credit. It's leverage.
>> Yeah. Okay. Explain that. Explain that
because as far as I know, we're not
seeing the scale of stuff getting
rebundled as we saw for instance in the
financial crisis.
>> Well, that that's true. You're not
getting the rebundling. Uh but you are
having there's a lot of leverage.
They're raising money and then they're
borrowing money to to buy more private
credit. It it's absolutely leverage upon
leverage. And the other thing while
they're not bundling like putting, you
know, the the thing about the gold
financial crisis is you took tripleb
rated and it's questionable whether they
even deserve a triple B-rated thing and
creating AAA rated securities out of
them. I mean just just that that alone
should make you just just you know just
stop even thinking about investing in it
that suddenly AAA has turned into a
triple triple B has turned into a triple
A. But one thing they are doing is
issuing public traded vehicles, daily
NAV vehicles to allow
Main Street America, mom and pop
investors to avail themselves of this
wonderful, fantastic opportunity of
private credit, which is totally a
liquidity mismatch. You've got daily NAV
funds investing in things that don't
trade at all. And so once there's a run
on those on those vehicles, and I don't
know how popular they've been, but
they're certainly been touted, but if if
they become popular in any way, you're
going to have the catalyst for a
tremendous
selling deluge because there is no
people want to will want to redeem and
they won't be able to get their money
out. And once you get that, once people
we're we're where the trouble always
comes in financial markets is when
people buy something that they think is
safe, it's sold to them as safe, but
it's not safe. You you buy a AAA rated
subprime mortgage pool, you think it's
safe because it's AAA rated, but it's
not safe. It's extremely dangerous. You
buy CDO equity and you buy CDO squared
equity back before the global financial
crisis and there isn't any real equity.
It's I buy your equity, you buy my
equity. It's we're all just It's just a
game that's being played to make an
illusion of liquidity. That's where
private credit is right now. It's an
illusion. They don't even claim it's
liquidity. But if you package it into a
publicly traded vehicle that that trades
on a daily basis, you have the perfect
mismatch of no liquidity with a vehicle
that promises liquidity. It looks like
it's safe because you could sell it any
day, but it's not safe because the price
at which you sell it will be gapping
lower, gapping lower, island gapping
lower, day after day after day. And so
that's where that's where the risk rise.
But these things go on forever. One of
the things about the investment business
is it's hard it's hard difficult enough
to be so-called right about the
direction of things we're going but it's
impossible to be both right on the
direction and correct on the timing
things that if even if you're right on
the direction it's going to take a lot
longer than you think. I turned negative
on the package mortgage non-g guaranteed
mortgage market in 2004.
It took three years for it to even start
to decay. So these things take forever
and it goes on much longer than you
think. You know, remember I turned
negative on the NASDAQ maximum negative
September 30th of 1999.
I looked like a 3 months later
because the the NASDAQ went up 80% in
the fourth quarter of 1999. But if you
had gone short the NASDAQ, September
30th of 1999, 18 months later, you had a
profit of 64%. Even though it went up
80% in the first 3 months, it dropped so
much in the ensuing uh 15 months that
the short would have made you a profit
of of of a very handsome profit in a
very difficult market.
>> Just very quickly, are you betting
against private credit now?
>> I I have no way to do that. I I I don't
really short bonds. Shorting high
yielding bonds is a really difficult
thing because the cost of carry is just
brutal every day that it doesn't it
doesn't decline. You're paying out a
very high uh you know rate and so you're
losing money all the time. So I don't
really do that. What I do is I just
don't allocate to it. I allocate to
things that will do better, you know,
that will be immune, relatively immune
or fully immune from the knock-on
effects of of of deterioration in
private credit. So that would that would
mean higher, you know, higher uh credit
things uh you know, using foreign
currencies more than more than
typically. But no, I don't I don't think
you can really short private credit.
What have you learned in uh your career
about um longevity and draw downs or
underperformance? Because as you
mentioned, you can be right or you could
be you can correctly identify a medium
or long-term trend, but it sometimes
takes a while to play out whether it's
the case from September 99 to the peak.
That's not actually that long. That was
closer to 6 months. Or uh being bearish
on some of the housing assets starting
in 2005, that took a little bit longer.
What is how do you survive as a
portfolio manager and be willing to take
time where you're just and accept that
you're going to underperform for a
while?
>> Well, you have to have uh think very
carefully about your time horizon. When
I started in this industry, one of the
first things I was tasked to do was to
do a study on what would happen if you
had perfect foresight uh in financial
markets. Perfect foresight. Of course
you can do a study like that by using
historical data. So you take stocks,
bonds, real estate, commodities to every
every asset class and you just look at
the historical returns and you can say
let's let's say at the beginning of
every year I invest with a five-year
horizon and I pick the asset class that
I know with metaphysical certitude is
going to have the highest return for
those five years because I'm looking at
historical data. I came to the
conclusion that if you had a five-year
horizon, you would go out of business
even if though you with metaphysical
certitude would have the highest
performing asset class. And that's
because so often the first two years of
the five years that best performing
asset class was not a good performer at
all. It was very frequently backend
loaded. So I said we cannot invest other
people's money with a fiveyear horizon.
I think that most people that invest
other people's money use too short of a
horizon. However, a lot of in a lot of
investment managers talk about they have
they're constantly reallocating. They're
constantly re you know they have a they
have a oneweek horizon. They have a
weekly meeting and they change. That's
not going to work. It's not going to
work because you the chance of you being
right in a week is very low. Your even
if you're going to be right for over a
two-year period, your chance of being
right in a week is very low. So I kept
modulating time horizon and I came to
the conclusion that the sweet spot was
between 18 months and two years for a
time horizon. And what what I've learned
is that having done that I've I have a
70% hit rate. I've got a long enough
career in enough uh strategies where
it's statistically significant and I
have a 70% hit rate which means I'm
right 70% of the time which means I'm
wrong 30% of the time. So I've been at
this for over 40 years. So, I've been
wrong for more than 12 years, [laughter]
right? But thank God they haven't been
in a row. Really, three years is when
everyone pulls the plug. If you
underperform year one, year two, and
year three, you're gone. You know, if
you're if you're wrong five years in a
row, they they shut your Janice
unconstrained bond fund because you
can't have sequential years of
outperformance like that.
>> It's a very specific example, Jeeoff.
Wonder where that came from.
>> Well, yeah. So, but the the so really it
comes down to about
having enough the sweet spot on not
being overly overly uh active and not
being overly, you know,
>> fixated on your long-term idea. And I've
managed I managed to do that. I've never
I've never really had three years in a
row of underperformance. So, uh that's
that's been a good thing. And it's
probably I I call myself uh is it Unk or
Chennichook is the last of the Moheakans
and Don Fenmore Cooper. I'm the last one
I'm the last man standing. When I
started in this every single person of
significance that's been in the business
since I started my career, they're all
retired or gone. I'm the last one
standing. Dana Emory was the only one
left and she was at Dodge and Cox, but
she retired uh at the end of June. So
I'm I'm
last of the Moheakans.
>> Jeff Gunus. Does that work? Jeff Gunkas
kind of. Um, very quickly, you know,
again, we're we're sort of we're very
we're being very introspective and
retrospective on this show, but over the
past 10 years, what's been the thing
that's surprised you most either in
terms of the markets or the financial
industry itself? The the thing that's
surprising and as equally distressing as
surprising is the the magnitude of money
printing that occurred in 2020, 2021,
2022. I I I just the the fact that the
the Federal Reserve broke the law and
bought corporate bonds surprised me. Uh
it probably shouldn't have surprised me
because they broke they broke the law
when they uh uh modified mortgages
during the global financial crisis. That
was that was not allowed per the
perspectuses of trillions of dollars of
securities. But they did it anyway. And
so what I've learned is that the rules
can be changed.
>> Yeah.
>> In spite of the fact that they seem to
be set in stone. And that's why I say,
and when I say this, people really act
very in a in a shocked type of reaction.
They don't believe that they can
restructure the Treasury debt, but yes,
they can. They can restructure the
Treasury debt.
>> And I I think that that sort of has to
happen in in some fashion, whether it's
the coupon adjustment that I talked
about, whether it's whether it's doing
the the yield curve control that Joel
brought up earlier. I I think something
like that has got to happen because when
something is impossible and paying our
interest back in today's buying power
dollar is impossible to pay off our
debt. It's impossible. Then you have to
open up your mind to a radical change in
the rule system. And of course that is
happening on every level. I mean you
talk to you look at surveys of people
that are say 35 and younger. They don't
believe in the institutions of this
country at all. Yeah. They don't believe
in the constitution. They don't believe
in religion. They don't believe they
don't believe in anything. And they need
people need something to believe in. And
that's what has to replace the system. A
system that people can believe in. And
what's being floated now just blows my
mind. And that is that we're going to
because we have tariffs that are raising
a few hundred billion dollars a year if
they stay in place. Well, that means
that we should give $2,000 to everybody
as a tariff dividend. We don't have any
money. We're borrowing $2 trillion. We
don't have $2,000 to throw away at
people again. We didn't we learned that
in 2020 to 2022 that giving money to
people causes inflation. Remember people
talking about modern monetary theory?
What a joke. I've heard of.
>> You know, you never hear anybody talking
about that anymore? Because by modern
monetary theory,
>> Joe, how come no one talks about that
anymore?
>> Because inflation went to 9.1%.
>> That's true. Can I ask one last
question? Are you like, it seemed like,
you know, you mentioned Trump floating
the idea of a $2,000 tariff dividend to
the public.
>> It's a,
>> but do you like are you was there an
opportunity in your view for Trump to
have changed the status quo? Like are
you disappointed that someone with sort
of Trump's persona energy sort of
perceived outsider status did not do has
not done anything that actually changes
some of whether the fiscal or economic
uh trajectory?
>> He he can't the problem is look look at
look at this government shutdown. You
know what is going on here? Why why do
we have to pay taxes if the government
is shut? Shouldn't Shouldn't taxes
not be charged for 41 days? Shouldn't
you have like an 11% tax rebate? Because
what's going on? Well, it's just because
there's this massive entrenched interest
that is the the kind of the uniarty
government that will fight tooth and
nail. Just look at all the lawfare. Look
at look at all of the indictments, all
the stuff. I mean, they'll do anything
they can to hold on to power until such
time as the people that vote these
people in say no mass, no more of this.
And that began with Trump. It's been
furthered just this month with Mandani.
Mandami won because people do not
believe. It's a it's a little bit
different. Well, it's Trump was more
like the lower middle class. They felt
that nobody was listening to them. Now
it's just young people just broadly
people under I don't know 35 years old
people that lost three years of
education uh with lockdowns and all all
these these policies they feel like they
have no chance of ever having the life
experience that the baby boomers had.
Home prices are more affordable less
affordable than they've ever been.
People have educations that aren't worth
anything. Jobs aren't available.
Nobody's hiring. They feel like there's
no future for them that looks anything
like what they look at Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell and
all these other people had. They don't
have it. And so they are not going to go
along with this. And so that's why
Montami won. It's just like I don't have
a shot here in New York City as a young
person. And that's what's taking over.
And so Trump can't do it himself. He he
caught on to something that was
obviously uh kind of hibernating within
the psyche of part of the population,
but it's now become a generational
thing. I wouldn't be surprised. Talk
about another crazy gunlock idea. I
wouldn't be surprised if they start
putting in place an age tax.
not a wealth tax, which they're doing to
a certain extent through electricity
bills and stuff like that these days
already, but you could put it together
an age tax that if you're over age 55,
you have a sir tax based upon you had a
better environment to accumulate wealth
than the the subsequent generations
have. And so you you you should you
should give some of that back. I I think
that might actually happen. That would
be a popular platform with certainly a a
specific demographic. Are you going to
run, Jeff? Do you have plans?
>> Uh, absolutely. Positively no.
[laughter] No chance.
>> Absolutely no chance.
>> All right, we shall leave it there.
Jeff, thank you so much for coming on
OddLots. Really appreciate it.
>> Well, thanks for having me on. I'm sure
kind of all over the map today, but I
hope your audience enjoys it.
>> They will. Thank you so much, Jeff.
Really appreciate it. Clearly a lot to
unpack there. Joe, one of the things
actually this was towards the end so
that's why it's in my mind. But you know
when he was talking about the Fed buying
corporate bonds in 2020, I really think
that was an underappreciated moment in
financial markets because I remember
again we're being very introspective
here. I remember writing pieces about
the corporate bond market being
problematic in like circa 2015, right?
And I used to have commenters who were
like, "Okay, so what's the worst case
scenario?" And the most extreme scenario
that we used to talk about was, "Well,
what if the Fed has to come in and buy
corporate bonds?" That was the extreme
scenario. And that's what happened in
2020. So, I kind of I take his point
about how quickly these things can
change and you can deviate from norms.
>> Totally. Um, remember we interviewed
Bill Gross on the beach a couple years
ago and he called out Jeff for like
being the pretend Bond King. Anyway, I
liked uh Jeff returning the favor by
pointing out the short-lived the
short-lived Janice unconstrained fund
that uh Bill ran after having left uh
PIMCO. So, I see that the rivalry uh the
rivalry continues.
>> We should have them both on and just let
them duke it out.
>> Yeah, just let them duke it out.
Seriously, it's like just do it. Yeah,
just both. Come on. People would love
that.
>> Oh, I'm sure. I'm sure that would
>> raise some money for charity or
something like that. That'd be great.
Yeah.
>> Okay. Um if Jeff if you are still
listening and Bill if if you are
listening um we should put pretend Bond
King in the headline and maybe lure him
on um open invitation to come on and and
debate. Um, but on a serious note, more
serious note, I thought the point about
how everyone's been piling into private
credit because it's outperformed public
credit, that is changing now, you know,
empirically that has changed this year.
But then secondly, everyone's been
piling into private credit because of
that low volatility pitch, which is one
that we've heard a number of times on
the podcast now. This idea that, well,
you don't have to market to market, and
that's actually a big strength. That
sales pitch starts to lose a lot of
power and conviction when you're going
from a 100 to zero in the space of a
month.
>> I don't like how they're new ones like
every day. You know what I'm saying?
It's like each one of these little
credit cockroaches are pretty small in
the grand scheme of things. But two
things, a they're small and yet they
seem to be touching a wide number of
firms, which I don't love. And I don't
like how they keep popping up. So, I'm a
little I'm a little anxious,
>> right? Because you think the scale is
small but then it just keeps keep new
stories.
>> Well, this is also why why the cockroach
analogy is so perfect, right? Cuz if you
see one, you know you have more than
one.
>> Yeah.
>> I once read an entire book about
cockroaches just because I figured like
know your enemy in New York [laughter]
and it was actually really interesting.
>> All right.
>> Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> Okay. [laughter]
This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Jeff Gunlock. is truthgunlock. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Armano Bennett at Dashbot and Kaleb
Brooks at Kaleb Brooks.
>> For more Odd Thoughts content, you
should subscribe to our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/bots.
>> And uh you can join fellow listeners in
conversation about all these topics in
our Discord 247. That's
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like or leave a comment or
better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
>> [music]
>> Boo.